Validation Case : Baldwin et. al TDS, titled Beryllium co-deposition TDS (#25)
festim-dev/V-V-report: report/validation/thermodesorption_spectra/baldwin/baldwin_tds.md

---
jupytext:
  formats: ipynb,md:myst
  text_representation:
    extension: .md
    format_name: myst
    format_version: 0.13
    jupytext_version: 1.16.2
kernelspec:
  display_name: vv-festim-report-env
  language: python
  name: python3
---

# Beryllium co-deposition TDS

This validation case is a thermo-desorption spectrum measurement perfomed by Baldwin et al. {cite}`baldwin_experimental_2014`.

> 1 *μ*m thick co-deposited $\mathrm{Be}$-(0.1)$\mathrm{D}$ layers were produced on 1mm radii tungsten spheres at ~$330K$ via a magnetron sputtering technique under a pressure of $1.33\times 10^{-6} \mathrm{Pa}$.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$1 \ \mathrm{\mu m}$ thick co-deposited $\mathrm{Be}$-(0.1)$\mathrm{D}$ layers were produced on 1mm radii tungsten spheres at ~$330 \ \mathrm{K}$ via a magnetron sputtering technique under a pressure of $1.33\times 10^{-6} \ \mathrm{Pa}$.
```

> The TDS measurement was then performed with a resting time of $306s$ and a heating ramp of $0.3 K/s^{-1}$.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The TDS measurement was then performed after a resting time of $306 \ \mathrm{s}$ and a heating ramp of $0.3 \ \mathrm{K \s^{-1}}$.
```

To reproduce this experiment, 2 intrinsic traps are used to emulate trapping by $\mathrm{Be}$.

> The model was run with three different BC types: Siervert's, RecombinationFlux and custom dynamically computed surface concentration (DSC) RecombinationFlux using equation 5 from the paper.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The model was run with three different types of boundary conditions: Siervert's law, recombination flux and custom dynamically computed surface concentration (DSC) recombination flux proposed by Baldwin et al. {cite}`baldwin_experimental_2014`.
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Following the approach of Baldwin et al. {cite}`baldwin_experimental_2014`, the exposure phase is not explicitly modelled. Instead, initial values are given to the trapped concentrations.
```

        F.InitialCondition(field=1, value=0.7 * trap_1_density),
        F.InitialCondition(field=2, value=0.3 * trap_2_density),
    ]

    model.dt = F.Stepsize(
        initial_value=0.5,
        stepsize_change_ratio=1.1,
        t_stop=resting_time - 20,
        stepsize_stop_max=20,
        dt_min=1e-05,
    )

    model.settings = F.Settings(
        absolute_tolerance=1e10,
        relative_tolerance=1e-09,
        final_time=tds_time + resting_time,
    )

    list_of_derived_quantities = [
        F.TotalVolume("solute", volume=1),
        F.TotalVolume("retention", volume=1),
        F.TotalVolume("1", volume=1),
        F.TotalVolume("2", volume=1),
        F.AverageVolume("T", volume=1),
        F.HydrogenFlux(surface=1),
        F.HydrogenFlux(surface=2),
    ]

    derived_quantities = F.DerivedQuantities(
        list_of_derived_quantities,
    )

    model.exports = [derived_quantities]

    model.initialise()
    model.run()

    return derived_quantities

derived_quantities_map = {}
bc_types = ["Sieverts", "Recombination flux", "DSC"]
for bc_type in bc_types:
    derived_quantities_map[bc_type] = run_tds(bc_type)
```

## Comparison with experimental data

> The results produced by FESTIM are in good agreement with the experimental data. The grey areas represent the contribution of each trap to the global TDS spectrum.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The results produced by FESTIM are in good agreement with the experimental data. The grey areas represent the contribution of each trap to the global TDS spectrum.
The first spectrum is the recombination flux model.
```

---
jupytext:
  formats: ipynb,md:myst
  text_representation:
    extension: .md
    format_name: myst
    format_version: 0.13
    jupytext_version: 1.16.2
kernelspec:
  display_name: vv-festim-report-env
  language: python
  name: python3
---

# Beryllium co-deposition TDS

This validation case is a thermo-desorption spectrum measurement perfomed by Baldwin et al. {cite}`baldwin_experimental_2014`.

> $1 \ \mathrm{\mu m}$ thick co-deposited $\mathrm{Be}$-(0.1)$\mathrm{D}$ layers were produced on 1mm radii tungsten spheres at ~$330 \ \mathrm{K}$ via a magnetron sputtering technique under a pressure of $1.33\times 10^{-6} \ \mathrm{Pa}$.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$1 \ \mathrm{\mu m}$ thick co-deposited $\mathrm{Be}$-(0.1)$\mathrm{D}$ layers were produced on 1mm radii tungsten spheres at ~$330 \ \mathrm{K}$ via a magnetron sputtering technique under a mixed atmosphere of Ar and D at a pressure of $0.8 \ \mathrm{Pa}$.
```

> The TDS measurement was then performed after a resting time of $306 \ \mathrm{s}$ and a heating ramp of $0.3 \ \mathrm{K \s^{-1}}$.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The TDS measurement was then performed after a resting time of $306 \ \mathrm{s}$ and a heating ramp of $0.3 \ \mathrm{K \ s^{-1}}$.
```

> The TDS measurement was then performed after a resting time of $306 \ \mathrm{s}$ and a heating ramp of $0.3 \ \mathrm{K \ s^{-1}}$.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The TDS measurement was then performed with a heating ramp of $0.3 \ \mathrm{K \ s^{-1}}$.
```

I realise that this 306 s parameter is not specified in the experimental paper.
